Obadiah chapter 1. the vision of Obadiah
thus says the Lord God concerning Edom
we have heard a report from the Lord and
a messenger has been sent among the
nation saying arise and let us rise up
against her for battle
behold I will make you small among the
Nations you shall be greatly despised
the pride of your heart has deceived you
you who dwell in the clefts of the rock
whose habitation is high you who say in
your heart who will bring me down to the
ground
though you ascend as high as the eagle
and though you set your nest Among the
Stars from there I will bring you down
says the Lord if thieves had come to you
if robbers by Night owe how you will be
cut off
would they not have stolen till they had
enough if grape gatherers had come to
you would they not have left some
gleanings oh how Esau shall be searched
out how his hidden treasure shall be
sought after all the men in your
Confederacy shall force you to the
border the minute peace with you shall
deceive you and Prevail against you
those who eat your bread shall lay a
trap for you no one is aware of it
will I not in that day says the Lord
even destroy the wise men from Edom and
understanding from the mountains of Esau
then your Mighty Men no demon shall be
dismayed to the end that everyone from
the mountains of Esau may be cut off by
Slaughter
for violence against your brother Jacob
shame shall cover you and you shall be
cut off forever in the day that you
stood on the other side in the day that
strangers carried captive his forces
when foreigners entered his Gates and
cast lots for Jerusalem even you were as
one of them but you should not have
gazed on the day of your brother in the
day of his captivity nor should you have
rejoiced over the children of Judah in
the day of their destruction nor should
you have spoken proudly in the day of
distress you should not have entered the
Gate of my people in the day of their
Calamity indeed you should not have
gazed on their Affliction in the day of
their Calamity nor laid hands on their
substance in the day of their Calamity
you should not have stood at the
crossroads to cut off those among them
who escaped nor should you have
delivered up those among them who
remained in the day of distress for the
day of the Lord upon all the nations is
near as you have done it shall be done
to you your reprisal shall return upon
your own head for as you drank on my
Holy Mountain so shall all the nations
drink continually yes they shall drink
and swallow and they shall be as though
they had never been but on Mount Zion
there shall be deliverance and there
shall be Holiness the house of Jacob
shall possess their possessions the
house of Jacob shall be a fire and the
house of Joseph aflame but the house of
Esau shall be stubble they shall Kindle
them and devour them and no Survivor
shall remain of the House of Esau for
the Lord has spoken the South shall
possess the mountains of Esau and the
lowland shall possess philistia they
shall possess the fields of Ephraim and
the fields of Samaria Benjamin shall
possess Gilead and the captives of this
host of the children of Israel shall
possess the land of the Canaanites as
far as arafath the captives of Jerusalem
who are in safarid shall possess the
cities of the South
then savior shall come to Mount Zion to
judge the mountains of Esau and the
kingdom shall be the Lords
foreign